Module 4 

Analysis Summary

Overall, the size of the school seems to correlate with the overall percentage of students passing.  District schools have a higher student count, therefore, students attending these schools are not performing as well as those attending charter schools which have a small to medium school size. Other variables outside of school size that could impact the overall performance outcome are performance by subject, grade level and school budgets. Reviewing the data by subject does illustrate reading scores were lower in larger schools, however, the discrepancy was minor in reading performance versus math performance when comparing charter and district schools. Math averaged three letter grades lower in district schools versus charter schools, whereas reading was only one letter grade lower. Analyzing the next variable, grade level, revealed that there was no impact on the overall performance as the scores were remarkably similar across all grades.  Lastly, school budgets surprisingly showed that the more spend available per student, the worse the overall performance. In conclusion, based on the data available the overall school size has a strong relationship with how well a student will perform in math and reading.

Conclusions or comparisons from the calculations (2)

1. Analyzing the data between top performing schools and bottom performing schools reveals that the percentage of students passing overall is lower in district schools versus charter schools driven by a lower percentage of students doing well in math. 

2. The data in the spending summary analysis indicates that the spending per student does not correlate with performance. In fact, it is quite the opposite, the lower the spending per student the better the overall passing percentage.  What does correlate with a high overall passing percentage is the size of the school.  Small to medium size schools (charter schools) have a better overall passing percentage than larger size schools (district schools).
